First day we were given the task web page analysis and optimization. We thought what this is? Then, we understood that webpage not only needs to be made by web developer but also it needs to be developed using some best practices which makes webpage renders fast. Because, web developer just make the webpage interactive and user friendly. Web developer use varieties of js,css,any other techniques to make browser looks good and also they make it catchy i.e. if a user comes once then he will come next for sure but imagine if he comes and that site looks good but if that takes time to render, will he come again? The answer is no,obviously. He won't come only because that site takes that time to render even though how good that site looks would not matter.
So now, to analyze some page that wheather that really depends on best practices or not we need to take out reports of webpage. So, for that we use yslow. yslow is a great open source tool provided by yahoo to check how slow/good your website is. yslow use some rules to to provide the score of webpage. Some of rules are combine css,js and check for headers and other many. It gives some particular weightage to each score based on the experiment yahoo did to compute the score of webpage. But this is not done for 2 or 3 urls but around 10000 urls which comes under vitual lab website so for that we wrote few scripts. Firstly, we wrote script that crawls the urls that comes under vitual lab webpage which are not in server and for those urls which are hosted in web, we use online crawler. After we extracted all urls we use yslow. To use yslow command, firstly install phantomjs javascript. After that intallation, we have yslow.js and yslow.sh script. Using yslow.js javascript we use command phantomjs "yslow.js --info grade --format tap --threshold '{"overall": "B", "ycdn": 65}' $url" where url is the full url of webpage for which you want to test and compute score. After few seconds we have the report of webpage. In that report we have all the 25 test on which this report has run and certain score is given. 
Now in general no one has time to look manually one by one to all 10000 reports and come to conclusion so for that we made a script that takes all the urls and from each url it takes scores and make a csv file so that we can have reports which can be seen and can be analyzed. Then using this csv file we make graphs on various aspects. We saw graphs between different rules and the number of urls that come under particular score. We can see that how many urls are rated as good or bad. So, as far we know about how many urls of our labs are working fine.
But how much will it improve if you use that particular rule in our code? So, for that we use pagespeed provided by google which is used to see the change after using these rules/filters in our url. Firstly, we need to install google mod-pagespeed in our machine which is freely available. After installation pagespeed, we can check differences between using webpage when pagespeed is on and when it is off. Also, pagespeed by default use some of its filters and accordingly yslow generate scores. But, we can alter filter and can see the result and this can be used to maximize our webpage's performance. Also, we can see that is there any filter which decreases the webpage performances.
So, here are our graphs and analysis.
---------------------------graphs and their analysis---------------------------------------
We can see reports and analyze them on large scale. Also, we can see the differences between the reports when pagespeed is on and when pagespeed is off. And, how filters affect web page performance. So, by this we can conclude that these things do contribute in web page rendering performances. 
By now we can say that web developer must keep these all in their mind while making website next time as webpage layout and looks are not that much important if it renders slow. So, not only one out of two are needed but both.
